Welcome back.
In this video,
you're going to learn about Markov chains.
Markov chains are really important because
they are used in speech recognition and
they're also used for
parts of speech tagging.
In this video, you're going to learn
about transition probabilities and
you will also learn about states.
Before jumping in,
let's start with a small example to
show what you want to accomplish and
then you will see how Markov chains
can help accomplish the task.
If you look at the sentence why not learn,
the word learn is a verb.
The question you want to answer
is whether the following word in
the sentence is a noun, a verb or
some other parts of speech.
If you're familiar with
the English language,
you might guess that if you
see a verb in a sentence,
the following word is more likely to
be a noun rather than another verb.
So the idea here is that the likelihood
of the next word's parts of speech
tag in a sentence tends to depend on the
parts of speech tag of the previous word.
Make sense, right?
You can represent the different
likelihoods visually.
Here, you have a circle
representing a verb and over here,
you have a circle representing a noun.
You can draw an arrow that goes from
the verb circle to the noun circle,
so the following arrow.
You can draw another arrow that
goes from the verb circle and
loops around back to point at itself.
You can associate numbers with each of
these arrows where a larger number means
that there is a higher likelihood you're
moving from one circle to the other.
In this example, the arrow does goes from
the verb to the noun maybe zero point six.
Whereas the arrow that goes from the verb
back to the verb has a zero point two.
The higher number of zero point six means
that it's more likely to go from a verb
to a noun as opposed to from
a new verb to another verb.
This is a great example of how Markov
chains work on a very small scale.
So what's our Markov chains?
They're a type of stochastic model that
describes a sequence of possible events.
To get the probability for
each event, it needs only
the states of the previous events.
The word stochastic just means random or
randomness.
So a stochastic model incorporates and
models processes does have
a random component to them.
A Markov chain can be
depicted as a directed graph.
So in the context of computer science,
a graph is a kind of data structure
that is visually represented as
a set of circles connected by lines.
When the lines that connect
the circles have arrows,
that's indicates a certain direction,
this is called a directed graph.
The circles of the graph
represents states of our model.
A state refers to a certain
condition of the present moment.
For example, if you are using a graph to
model whether water is in a frozen state,
a liquid state or a gas states,
then you would draw a circle for
each of these states to represent the
three possible states that water can be
at the present moment.
I'm labeling each state as q1, q2, q3,
etc to give them each a unique name,
then referring to the set of all
states with the capital letter Q.
For this graph,
there are three states, q1, q2 and q3.
Next up, get ready to use Markov
chains to tag parts of speech.